1. What is an identifier in Python?
Is a name of variable

2. What are the rules for creating identifiers in Python?
(1) Start with either alphabet or underscore
(2) Keyword never used as a indentfier

3. Can we use keywords as variable names? Why?
No we cant used keyword as variable name 
Bcoz keyword has a special meaning in python syntax 

4. What is meant by Python being case sensitive?
Means it is distinguish between uppercase and lowercase letters

5. What is the difference between A and a in Python?
A is in upper case and a is in lowercase
But both are different variables

6. What are Python keywords?
Means the words which have special meaning in python
For ex; False , True, from

7. Why can’t we use for, if, or class as variable names?
Because they are keywords in python 
We never used keywords as a variable name

8. What is the difference between True and "True"?
True means it is Boolean type
“True” it is a string

9. What is the role of None in Python?
None means it doesn’t have any value

10. Name any 10 Python keywords.
True, False, for, from , if, class, else, global, or , not , with, break, except 

11. What are the basic data types in Python?
Int , Float , Complex , Boolean , String , Bytes

12. What is the difference between int and float?
Int is used for normal numbers and float is used for decimal format

13. What is a complex number in Python?
Complex number means which have real and imaginary value like 1+2j

14. Why does Python use j instead of i in complex numbers?
Bcoz in engineering i is used for current so in complex number they used j

15. What are container data types in Python?
List , Tuple , Set , Dict

16. What is the difference between list, tuple, set, and dict?
List is ordered and mutable
Tuple is ordered but immutable
Set is unordered and stores unique elements
Dictionary stores data in key-value pairs with unique keys.

17. What is a boolean type?
It is a data type in python,  gives output in only two ways True or False

18. What are the possible values of a boolean variable?
True and False

19. What is a string in Python?
String is a data type in python stores the characters

20. Why are Python strings called immutable?
Bcoz we cant modify or change the string once it created

21. What is dynamic typing in Python?
Dynamic typing in Python means that we do not need to declare the data type of a variable when we create it


22. Can the same variable hold different types of values in Python?
Yes, in Python a variable can store different types of values at different times because Python is dynamically typed

23. What will happen in the below code?

a = 10
a = "Hello"
print(type(a))
Output =
Str
Bcoz first it is int but after create a=”Hello” it will be replace to the str

23. What is multiple assignment in Python?
Multiple assignment means assigning values to multiple variables in a single line

24. How can we assign the same value to multiple variables?
A=b=c=20

26. What is the output of:

a = b = c = 5
print(a, b, c)

output is 5

27. What is the difference between decimal, binary, octal, and hexadecimal numbers?
       Decimal, binary, octal, and hexadecimal are number systems with bases 10, 2, 8, and 16           respectively. They differ in the digits they use and how numbers are represented
For ex;
a = 10      	# Decimal
b = 0b1010 	# Binary
c = 0o12    	# Octal
d = 0xA     	# Hexadecimal
28. How do we write a binary number in Python?
      If we want to write 10 then in binary we write it like a 0b1010 and for that inbuilt function is print(bin(10)) it will show 0b1010

29. What is the prefix for octal numbers in Python?
       0o is a prefix for octal numbers in python

30. What is the prefix for hexadecimal numbers in Python?
       0x is a prefix for hexadecimal numbers in python

31. What is the decimal value of 0b1010?
       10

32. What is the decimal value of 0xA?
        10

