Q1.  What is a lambda function in Python? How is it different
     from a regular function defined with def?

     lambda function is ananomous function in Python
     It written in single line code and regular def function written in more than 1 line

Q2.  What are the three key properties of a lambda function?
    (1). ananomous
    (2). Autoreturn the result
    (3). Single line expression , no multiline logic allow

Q3.  Can a lambda function have multiple statements or
     multiple lines of code? Why or why not?

     No, lambda function have only single line statement it returns in single line and for quick testing

Q4.  Does a lambda function need an explicit return statement?
     Explain.
     No, it doesnt need explicit return statement by its property it is Autoreturn

Q5.  How do you write an if-else condition inside a lambda
     function? Give an example.

     for ex ;
     even_odd=(lambda n:"even" if n%2==0  else "odd")
     print(even_odd(5))
     print(even_odd(8))


Q6.  What is the map() function? What does it return?
    map() function applies function on each element of iterables(list,tuple,range,dict,set)
    It returns same number of output as a given input

Q7.  Why do we need to wrap map() inside list() to see the
     output as a list?
     Because it gives object means it returns mem location of map so we need to convert it into list

Q8.  What is the difference between map() and a for-loop?
     When would you prefer map()?

     map() gives number of output equal as a number of input and it logic is easier
     when we used for loop it gives only filter result and logic is complex here 
     i would prefer map() for simple logic and for loop for complex logic

Q9.  How many elements does map() return compared to the
     input iterable? Explain with an example.

     It returns equal number of elements as a input iterable
     For ex;
     names = ['alice', 'bob', 'carol']
     first=map(lambda n:n.capitalize(),names)
     print(list(first))


Q10. What is the filter() function? How does it differ
     from map()?

     filter() is used to filter out the input according to condition it gives result on only elements where condition is true 
     map() returns same number of output as a input iterable it doesnt filter out

Q11. What is the key difference between map() and filter()
     in terms of input count vs output count?

     map() returns same number of output as a input iterable it doesnt filter out
     filter() returns filterd data it gives result on only elements where condition becomes true

Q12. What should the function passed to filter() always
     return? What happens if it returns something other
     than True or False?

    It returns True when condition is true and keep only those elements and discard False elements
    If it returns other than True and False python automatically converts the return value into boolean using truthy and falsy rules


Q13. What happens when you pass None as the function
     argument to filter()?

     It returns Only True values and discard that None 

Q14. What is the reduce() function? Which module must
     you import it from?

     reduce() function applies on every element of iterable in loop
     we import reduce from functools

Q15. Why was reduce() moved out of Python built-ins and
     into the functools module in Python 3?

     reduce() was moved from Python built in to the Python functools because,
     it was less readable and less commonly used like map() and filter()


Q16. Explain step by step how reduce() works on the list
     [1, 2, 3, 4, 5] with addition.

     step 1 : 1    = 1
     step 2 : 1+2 = 3
     step 3 : 3+3 = 6
     step 4 : 6+4 = 10
     step 5 : 10+5 = 15

Q17. What is the difference between map(), filter(), and
     reduce() in terms of what they return?
     (map → ? | filter → ? | reduce → ?)

     map     -> returns the same number of output as equal to input iterable
     filter  -> returns the filtered data only if condition is true 
     reduce  -> returns the single commulative value after looping on every element of iterable

Q18. Can reduce() work on an empty list? What happens?
     How can you handle this?

     No it gives Error like - TypeError: reduce() of empty iterable with no initial value
     To handle it we have to provide some value as a third argument
     for ex;
     nums = []
     result = reduce(lambda x, y: x + y, nums, 0) ---> here we give third argument is 0
     print(result) # Output : 0

Q19. What is an initializer in reduce()? When would you
     use it?

    initializer in reduce() is the optional third argument that provides the starting value for the reduction operation
    syntax : reduce(function, iterable, initializer)


Q20. How would you find the maximum value in a list using
     reduce() without using max()?

     Using Comparision 
     for ex;
     maximum=reduce(lambda a,b : a if a>b else b)

Q21. Give a real-world example where you would chain
     filter() and map() together.

    For ex;
    scores = [42, 78, 55, 33, 91, 47, 60]
    filter1=filter(lambda i:i>50,scores)
    map1=map(lambda i:i+5,filter1)
    print(list(map1))


Q22. What is functional programming? How do lambda, map,
     filter, and reduce relate to it?

     Functional programming means we have some built in functions in python they actually stores their own logic
     Functional programming is a programming style where functions are treated as main building blocks, and data is processed without changing it directly.

    lambda → creates small anonymous functions
    map() → applies a function to all elements
    filter() → selects elements based on a condition
    reduce() → combines all elements into one result

Q23. Can map() accept more than one iterable? Give an
     example showing map() with two lists.

     Yes , it accepts more than one iterable
     for ex;
     result = list(map(lambda x, y: x + y,[1, 2, 3], [10, 20, 30]))
     print(result)

Q24. What is the difference between map() and a list
     comprehension? When would you use one over the other?

     map() used to applies function on all elements and list comprehension used when we want more readability and conditions


Q25. Write the reduce() equivalent of the following
     using only a for-loop:
     from functools import reduce
     result = reduce(lambda a, b: a * b, [1, 2, 3, 4, 5])

     nums=[1,2,3,4,5]
     result=1
     for i nums:
         result=result*1
     print(result)

