Q1. What is a function in Python? Write its definition in one line.
    Function is a logic behind any operation , used to perform some specific task
    function definition : def funtion_name():

Q2. What are the advantages of using functions? Name all 5 from your notes.
    (1) improve readability
    (2) reusability
    (3) modularity
    (4) easy to maintain
    (5) testing and debugging

Q3. What is the syntax of a user-defined function in Python? What keyword is used to define it?
    syntax of a user-defined function in Python = def function_name:
    keyword used to define it is def

Q4. What is the difference between defining a function and calling a function?
    function definition means create a function body / build logic
    function calling means declare function_name() outside the function for accessing the function_definition

Q5. What are the two types of functions in Python? Give two examples of each.
    (1) Built-in function : ex; len(),max(),min()
    (2) User defind function : ex; def cal_simple_interest():

Q6. What is the difference between a parameter and an argument?
    Parameter are the variable declare in function_name in function_definition
    Argumetns are the actual values of parameters

Q7. What is the function naming convention in Python? Give one good example and one bad example.
    Function naming conventions are function name should be return in lower case and if function_name contains multiple words always used _ to separate them
    good ex; def simple_interes():
    bad ex; def Simple Interest():

Q8. What does the return statement do? What happens if a function has no return statement?
    return statment send value back to the caller used to access the result outside the function definition , we can store,reused it everywhere in program
    if we didnt used return function we cant access the result outside the function definition in program 

Q9. What is the difference between a function that uses print() inside it vs a function that uses return?
    print() used for display output only we cant reused that values again
    return function send value to caller, used to access ,store and reused everywhere in program

Q10. Can a Python function return more than one value? How do you store multiple returned values?
    yes, python fucntion return more than one value
    to store multiple return value we used , delimeter for ex, return res1,res2,res3

Q11. What is a function body? What is the role of indentation inside a function?
     function body is the block of code written inside a function definition
     indentation is very important because it defines the scope of the function body,it defines which statements belong to the function and ensures correct execution

Q12. Can you call a function multiple times? What is the advantage of doing that?
    yes we can call function multiple times using function calling method, advantage is we doesnt need to create the function every time

Q13. What is code reusability? How do functions help achieve it?
    code reusability means we used same code for multiple time, using function calling method

Q14. What will happen if you call a function before defining it in Python?
    Python execute code line by line if we call it before defining it will not recognize it and shows NameError

Q15. What is modularity in programming? How do functions help in making code modular?
    modularity in programming means make complex programs into simple format or logic
    to making code modular we used code reusability, debugging, readability, maintainability