------------------ 21 May---------------------------


Q1.  What is File I/O in Python? Why do we need it?
    File I/O is used to perform some task on file like reading data from files and writing data to files 
    we need it for large data handling and storage purpose
    

Q2.  What is the syntax of the open() function?
     What are its two main arguments?

     syntax: open("Filename","mode")

Q3.  List all the file opening modes in Python and
     explain what each one does:
     "r", "w", "a", "r+", "w+", "a+"

     r = opens file for reading only
     w = opens file for writing only
     a = opens file for appending only
     r+ = opens file for both reading and writing 
     w+ = opens file for both writing and reading
     a+ = opens file for both appending and reading



Q4.  What is the default mode of open() if no mode
     is specified?

     r - read only is default mode of open 

Q5.  Explain the three steps of how File I/O works
     internally in Python (memory buffer explanation).

     open() - open or create file / create connection and buffer
     read() / write() - store the temproray data in RAM buffer
     close() - store the data permanently to disk

Q6.  What does open() return? What do we call this
     returned object?

     open() returns file object to perform operations read(),write(),close()

Q7.  Why is it important to call close() after
     file operations? What happens if you don't?

     to stored data permanently on disk we need to call close(), if we dont used close() the content of that file is not visible

Q8.  What happens to the file object after close()
     is called? Can you use it again?

     after close that file object it stored that data permanently on disk
     and clears buffer memory

Q9.  What is the difference between write() and
     writelines()?

     write() - used to write single string (String)
     writelines() - used to write multiple string (list,tuple)

Q10. What does write() return? Does it add a newline
     automatically?

     No it doesnt add new line automatically it returns continous stream of string

Q11. What is the difference between read(), read(n),
     readline(), and readlines()?

     read() - used to read entire content
     read(n) - used to read n line
     readline() - used to read entire content including \n in list
     readlines() - used to read enitre content excluding \n in list

Q12. What data type does readlines() return?
     What does each element in the result contain?

     readlines() - returns in list 
     each element in the result contain string

Q13. What is the difference between readline() and
     readlines()?

    readline() - used to read entire content including \n in list
     readlines() - used to read enitre content excluding \n in list


Q14. What happens when you open a file in "w" mode
     that already exists with content?

     It replace old content with new one

Q15. What is the difference between "w" mode and
     "a" mode?

     'w' and 'a' both used for writing data
     w -  used to write a data in the beggining
     a - used to add or write a data later

Q16. What error is raised when you try to open a file
     in "r" mode that does not exist?

     FileNotFoundError is raised

Q17. What is the with statement in file I/O?
     What is its advantage over manually calling close()?

     with statement is used to open file safely and auto manage closing the file
     Advantages : auto closing file, safe if error occurs, shorter coded

Q18. When using the with statement, do you need to
     call close() explicitly? Why not?

     with statement is used to open file safely and auto manage closing the file
     doesnt need to call close() explicitly

Q19. What happens when you call write() twice on the
     same file object without closing it?
     For example:
     fobj.write("Hello")
     fobj.write("World")
     What is written to the file?

     output : HelloWorld 
     it returns that data nearest old data

Q20. What is the difference between reading a file
     with read() vs iterating over the file object
     with a for loop?

     read() - direclty read entire data at once
     for loop() - read data according to condition

Q21. In write_operation.py, the file is opened twice
     in "w" mode. What is the final content of the
     file? Explain why.

    final content : hello india
    because when we call write mode again on same file it will replace old data with new


Q22. How do you write a list of strings to a file,
     one item per line?

     using write() we need for loop for list
     thats why writelines() is used

Q23. What is a FileNotFoundError? When does it occur
     and how do you handle it?

     FileNotFoundError occurs when file is not present or exist three
     To handle it either used exception handling or give the file name which is exist there

Q24. What is the difference between "r+" and "w+" mode?

    r+ - used for both read and write operations on existing files only
    w+ - used for both write and read operations ,creates files if it doesnt exist

Q25. Why should close() always be called after file
     operations are complete, and how does the with
     statement ensure this automatically?

     close() is needed because to save data permanently on disk and avoid corruption
     with statement ensures close() is called auto,even if errors occur



------------------ 22 May---------------------------

Q1.  What is the with statement in Python file I/O?
     What problem does it solve compared to manually
     calling close()?

     with statement is used to open files in various modes
     is is more secured and not needed to close() it , it closes automatically

Q2.  What is a context manager in Python?
     How does with act as a context manager for files?

     a context manager is an object that automatically manages resources like files,database connections and locks
     'with' act as a context manager like,
      1. Opens the file
      2. Give access to the file object
      3. automatically closes the file after the block ends



Q3.  Does the with statement call close() automatically?
     When exactly is the file closed?

     Yes,it call close() automatically after the block ends

Q4.  What happens if you try to use the file object
     after the with block has ended?

     it raised ValueError because operations cant perform on closed files
     

Q5.  What is the difference between "w" and "a" mode
     when using the with statement?

     when we want to add new content in file we used 'a' and at starting of creation the file we used 'w'
     Because 'w' removes old content if we used it for add new content

Q6.  If you open the same file in "w" mode twice in
     two separate with blocks, what happens to the
     original content each time?

     Python remove all existing content of the file before writing new data


Q7.  What is JSON? What does JSON stand for?

     JSON is a lightweight format used to store and exchange data between programs,
     applications and servers
     JSON stands for JavaScript Object Notation 



Q8.  What is serialization in Python?
     Give a real-world example of why it is needed.

     serialization means convert python object (str,int,null,none,float,boolean,list,array,dict)
     into JSON format
     Real-world used : saving game progress,storing user settings,sending data through API


Q9.  What is deserialization in Python?
     How is it the reverse of serialization?

     deserialization means convert JSON format into python object
     Using json.load(obj) method reverse the serialization

Q10. What is the difference between json.dump()
     and json.dumps()?

     json.dump() used to convert python obj into json format
     json.dumps() used to convert python obj into string format

Q11. What is the difference between json.load()
     and json.loads()?

     json.load() is read json data from file
     json.loads() is read json data from string


Q12. What Python data types can be serialized to JSON?
     List the Python → JSON type mappings.

     Python - > JSON
     dict   - > object {}
     list   - > array []
     tuple  - > array[]
     str    - > string ""
     int    - > number
     float  - > number
     True   - > true
     False  - > false
     None   -> null

Q13. What does a Python tuple become when serialized
     to JSON using json.dump()?
     What type do you get back when you load it?

     It becomes list [] and we also get type list
     
Q14. What does a Python None value become in JSON?
     What does True / False become?

     Null value becomes null in JSON
     True become true
     False becom  false


Q15. In list_serialization.py, why does json.load()
     fail immediately after json.dump() in the same
     with block? How do you fix this?

     Because we used 'w+' mode which means both write and read
     But when we run json.dump() cursor is goes to end of the file
     so json.load() is unable to read it from starting
     so we used obj.seek(0) to move cursor to the beginning

Q16. What does fobj.seek(0) do? Why is it needed
     when you want to read a file after writing to it
     in the same open session?

     Because we used 'w+' mode which means both write and read
     But when we run json.dump() cursor is goes to end of the file
     so json.load() is unable to read it from starting
     so we used obj.seek(0) to move cursor to the beginning


Q17. What is the difference between "w" mode and
     "w+" mode when used with JSON operations?

     'w' - used to writing only
     'w+' - used for both write and read

Q18. Why is json.dump() better than fobj.write(str(data))
     for saving Python data structures to files?
     
     because it saves the data into proper JSON format which is standardized ,portable
     and wasy to read back


Q19. What does the indent parameter in json.dump() do?
     When would you use it?

     indent parameter used for formating the JSON data with spaces and new lines
     making it easier for read

Q20. Write the complete steps to save a Python list
     to a JSON file and load it back. What imports
     are needed?

     Step 1 : Import json module
               import json
     Step 2 : create python list
               nums = [1,2,3]
     Step 3 : save the list to a JSON file
               with open("file_name.json",'w') as file_obj:
                    json.dump(list_name,file_obj)
     Step 4 : load list back to JSON file
               with open("file_name.json",'w') as file_obj:
                    json.load(file_obj)


Q21. What error is raised if you try to json.load()
     a file that contains invalid JSON?

     It raised json.JSONDecoderError error


Q22. What error is raised if you try to json.load()
     a file opened in "w" mode only (not readable)?

     It reaised io.UnsupportedOperation: not readable error

Q23. Can you append to a JSON file the same way you
     append text to a .txt file using "a" mode?
     Why or why not? What is the correct approach?

     No, we cant direclty append because JSON store element in proper strucutre we if try to add it will be invalid
     so for append
     1. read it using json.load()
     2. now append like list_name.append(40)
     3. now check modifications using w mode with json.dump()


Q24. What is the difference between the with statement
     approach and the try/finally approach for
     ensuring a file is always closed?

     Both used to ensure that file is closed
     but with done it automatically
     and using try/finally we have to close it in finally block 
     otherwised its not closed automatically


Q25. When would you choose to use JSON files over
     plain text files to store data in Python?

     When data is very large and we want it in more stuctured format