-----------Decision controll instructions-----------

Q1. What is decision control in Python? Why do we need it?
    Decision control in python are the instructions used for checking conditions
    
Q2. What is the syntax of a simple if statement? What happens if the condition is False?
    if condition:
        statement1
        statement2

    if condition becomes false it will terminate 

Q3. What is the difference between if and if-else statement?
    if statement used for checking single condition , if that condition is false it will terminated
    if-else statement used for checking 2 conditions , after checking both conditions it will terminated

Q4. What is the difference between if-else and if-elif-else?
     if-else statement used for checking 2 conditions , after checking both conditions it will terminated
     if-elif-else statement used for checking multiple conditions

Q5. How many elif blocks can you write in a single if-elif-else statement?
    multiple elif blocks we can write in a single if-elif-else statement

Q6. What is indentation in Python? What happens if you do not indent the code inside an if block?
    indentation means statement are placed on right position , so when we used loops that can understand statments for execution
    if we didnt used proper indentation in if block they will not able to check statemetns for given condition

Q7. What is the difference between the and operator and the or operator?
    and operator used when both values are must be true for execute the statement
    or operator used when from both values at least one value should be true for execute of condition

Q8. When does and return True? Give one example.

    and returns True when both values are true
    ex; age=int(input("Enter ur age :"))
        nationality=input("Enter ur nationality : ")

        if (age>=18) and (nationality==indian):
            print("Eligible for voting")
        else
            print("Not Eligible for voting")
    

Q9. When does or return True? Give one example.
    or returns True when at least one values is true from both
    ex; age=int(input("Enter ur age :"))
        nationality=input("Enter ur nationality : ")

        if (age>=18) or (nationality==indian):
            print("Entry allow")
        else
            print("Entry denied")

Q10. What will be the output of the following and why?
x = 10
if x > 5:
    print("Greater")
print("Done")

    Output : Greater
             Done

    Because 10>5 according to condtion it is true 

Q11. What is the difference between = and == in Python? Which one is used in if conditions?
    = this is assignment operator used to assign values
    == this is comparison operator used to compare two values
    == this operator used in if statement

Q12. Can you write an if statement without an else block? Is else mandatory?
    Yes we can write an if statement without an else block when we have to just check one codition , if condition is true print statment otherwise terminate 

Q13. What happens if none of the elif conditions are True and there is no else block?
    if none of the elif conditions are true and there is no else block , its returns nothing 
    terminate from the loop

    ex; x = 5
        if x > 10:
            print("Greater than 10")
        elif x > 8:
            print("Greater than 8")

        print("Program continues")

        Output : Program continues


Q14. Can you use and and or together in the same condition? Give one example.
    Yes,
    ex; age = 20
        has_id = True
        is_student = False
        
        if (age >= 18 and has_id) or is_student:
            print("Allowed entry")
        else:
            print("Not allowed")

            Output : Allowed entry


Q15. What will be the output and why?
num = 15
if (num > 10) and (num < 20):
    print("Number is between 10 and 20")
else:
    print("Number is out of range")

    Output : Number is between 10 and 20
    Because 15 is between 10 and 20 given condition becomes true 


-----------Repetation controll instructions-----------

Q1. What is a loop in Python? Why do we use loops?
    loop is a block for Repetation purpose in python used to checking condtions
    if condition is true then it enters in block and execute the statements

Q2. What is the difference between a while loop and a for loop?
    while loop used when we want to check condition it will repeat until condition becomes true
    for loop used when we alreay know the iteration count , means how many times repeatation happens 

Q3. What is the syntax of a while loop? What happens if the condition never becomes False?
    while conditon:
        statement
    If condtion never becomes false , it will print statement infinite times

Q4. What is an infinite loop? How can you avoid it in a while loop?
    infinite loop comes when there is not false condition until false condition comes it will print statement 
    to avoid we have to declare some false statement outside the while loop 

Q5. What is the syntax of a for loop in Python?
    for var_name in sequence:
        statement

Q6. Can a for loop iterate over a string? What does it print for each iteration?
    yes, for loop iterate over a string also
    ex; text = "Python"
        for ch in text:
            print(ch,end=" ")

    Here each line print single character from text
    Output :P y t h o n

Q7. What is the range() function? Write its full syntax with start, stop, and step.
    range() function used for generate sequence of numbers
    syntax : range(start,stop,step)

Q8. What does range(5) generate? What does range(1, 6) generate?
    range(5) generates sequence of numbers from 0 to 4
    range(1,6) generates sequence of numbers from 1 to 5

Q9. What is the difference between range(10) and range(0, 10)?
    both are same they generate sequence of numbers from 0 to 9

Q10. What does the step parameter in range() do? What will range(0, 10, 2) generate?
    step() paramter in range used to skip out the numbers
    range(0,10,2) gives 0 2 4 6 8

Q11. What does the break statement do in a loop? When is it used?
    break statement used to terminate the loop from that iteration

Q12. What does the continue statement do in a loop? How is it different from break?
    continue statment used to skip that iteration and print entire sequence 
    yes its different because continue statement print enitre sequence after skip that iteration but break statment terminates when that iteration comes

Q13. What will happen to the rest of the loop iterations when break is encountered?
    when break is encountered , it will terminate from the loop immediately at that point 

Q14. What will happen when continue is encountered -- does it stop the loop or skip only that iteration?
    it will skip that iteration only

Q15. What is the difference between while loop and for loop -- when would you prefer one over the other?
    the difference is how the iteration controll
    for loop used when  we know number of iterations already
    while loop used when we dont know the number of iterations it runs until condtion becomes true
    i prefer for loop when i want iteration for specific number of times and i prefer while loop
    for checking some conditions