Q1.  What is a dictionary in Python? How is it different from
     a list?
     Dictionary is container data type which stores value in key-value pair
     In list duplication is allow and in dictionary duplication is not allow

Q2.  What is the syntax of a dictionary? What brackets are used
     and how are key-value pairs written?
     Syntax : dict_name={key1:val1,key2:val2,....}

Q3.  Can a dictionary have duplicate keys? What happens if you
     define the same key twice?
     No dictionary doesnt allow duplicate keys if we define it again it will take latest key and for this they use hashing technique

Q4.  Can a dictionary have duplicate values? Can different keys
     hold the same value?
     Yes dictionay have duplicate values and its also hold the same values

Q5.  How do you access a value in a dictionary? Does it support
     integer indexing like a list?
     To access value in dictionary Syntax : dict_name[key]
     No it doesnt support indexing and slicing

Q6.  What are the three ways to loop through a dictionary?
     Name the method used for each.
     1.Loop through key
     2.Loop through value
     3.Loop through key-value pair
     
dict1={"name":"Akshay","roll_no":100,"weight":65.6,"placement":True}

print("Print all keys","\n")
for i in dict1.keys():
    print(i)

print("\n","Print all values","\n")
for j in dict1.values():
    print(j)

print("\n","Print both","\n")
for a,b in dict1.items():
    print(a,"=",b)

    

Q7.  What does dict.items() return? How is it used in a loop?
    dict.items() returns key with value
    For ex;  print("\n","Print both","\n")
            for a,b in dict1.items():
                print(a,"=",b)


Q8.  What is the difference between looping with
     'for k in dict' and 'for k in dict.keys()'?
     There is no difference both loops return keys

Q9.  How does enumerate() work with dictionaries?
    enumerate() gives us index of key-value pair
    ex; dict1={"Name":"Gayatri","Age":21}
        for i,(k,v) in enumerate(dict1.items()):
            print(i,k,v)
    
    output : 
    0 Name Gayatri
    1 Age 21
    {'Name': 'Gayatri', 'Age': 21}


Q10. What does it mean that dictionaries are mutable? Give three
     operations that demonstrate mutability.
     Dictionaries are mutable means we can change, remove or replace the key-value 
     Operations that demonstrate mutability:
     1.update() = used to add new element
     2.pop() = used  to remove element using key
     3.popitems() = used to remove last key-value pair of that dictionary
     4.clear() = used to delete all items from the dictionary

Q11. How do you merge two dictionaries in Python? What happens
     when both have the same key?
     To merge the dictionary in python we used '|' this operator
     If both have same keys they will take latest keys 

Q12. What is aliasing in dictionaries? How does it differ from
     cloning?
     Aliasing does both dictionaries stores on same memory location and if any modification is done on that it will affect on eachother
     and in cloning dictionaries are stores on different memmory location here modifications are not affect on each other

Q13. What does copy() do? How does it differ from simple
     assignment (dict2 = dict1)?
     copy() used to create new dictionary object so modifications doesnt affect on eachother

Q14. What does the 'in' operator check in a dictionary —
     keys or values? How do you check for a value instead?
     'in' operator is used to check the presence of that element in that dictionary
     Ex;
     dict1 = {"name": "Akshay", "roll_no": 100}
     print("Akshay" in dict1.values())

Q15. What is the difference between the 'is' operator and the
     '==' operator when used with dictionaries?
     'is' = used to check both dictionaries are store in same memory address
     '==' = used to check both dictionaries have same elements

Q16. How do you check if a dictionary is empty?
    using 'not' operator
    ex; dict1={}
        print(not dict1)
        Output : True

Q17. What do max(), min(), and sum() operate on in a
     dictionary — keys or values?
     Keys

Q18. What does sorted() return when applied to a dictionary?
     Is the result a dictionary or a list?
     It sorted into ascending order based on keys
     Result is in a list

Q19. What does reversed() do on a dictionary?
    reversed() used to reversed a dictionary keys output shows in list data typw

Q20. What is the difference between any() and all() when
     applied to a dictionary?
     any() = it returns true when atleast one value is true (o allow)
     all() = it returns true when all values are true (no 0 allow)

Q21. What does the update() method do? How is it different from
     adding a key using dict[key] = value?
     update() method used to add a new key-value in dictionary
     using update we can add another dictionary also in already exist dictionary 

Q22. What is the difference between pop() and popitem()?
    pop() = used to delete particular key-value pair
    popitem() = used to delete last key-value pair of the dictionary

Q23. What error does pop() raise when the key does not exist?
     How can you avoid it?
     It give error like KeyError
     to avoid it we have to make sure that key should be present in the dictionary

Q24. What does popitem() remove — the first pair, last pair,
     or a random one?
     last pair, it follow LIFO(last in first out) technique

Q25. What does clear() do to a dictionary? What does the
     dictionary look like after calling clear()?
     clear() used to delete all elements from dictionary 
     It looks like empty dictionary

Q26. What types can be used as dictionary keys? Can a list
     be used as a key? Why or why not?
     We can used int,bool,tuple,string
     No , we cant used list as a key Because dictionary keys must be immutable and hashable

Q27. How do you convert a list of tuples into a dictionary?
    using dict() keyword

Q28. When you convert a set to a dictionary using a for loop,
     can you predict the order of keys? Why or why not?
     No we cant predict the order of keys,because sets are unordered

Q29. What is the difference between a dictionary and a set
     in Python? (Both use curly brackets — how do you tell
     them apart?)
     Set store single value and dictionary store key-value pairs

Q30. What will any() and all() return on an empty dictionary?
     Explain why.
     any() returns false
     all() returns True because in empty dictionary there is no false value