Q1.  Write out the LEGB rule in full. What does each
     letter stand for? In what order does Python search
     each level?

    LEGB - is a namspace declaration rule in python.

     L - local
     E - enclosing
     G - global
     B - built-in


Q2.  What is the enclosing (E) namespace? Give a clear
     example showing a variable in the enclosing scope.

     enclosing(E) namespace is declare inside outer function and accessable inside that function and there nested functions
     ex ; 
     def outer():
        y = 3       # enclosing 
        def inner():
            z=8     # local
            print(x,y) 
        def inner()

Q3.  What is the difference between the local namespace
     and the enclosing namespace?

     local name space declare inside the inner function and accessable only in that function 
     enclosing function is declare inside outer function and accessable inside that function and there nested functions

Q4.  Can an inner function read a variable from the
     enclosing function without any keyword?
     Can it MODIFY that variable? What keyword is needed
     to modify an enclosing variable?

     Yes, it can read wihtout any keyword
     No , we cant modift it directly we need to used keyword nonlocal for modify
     ex;
     def outer():
        count=0
        def inner():
            #count +=1   --> we cant modify directly it gives unbound error
            nonlocal count
            count +=1
        inner()
     outer()

Q5.  What is the nonlocal keyword? How is it different
     from the global keyword?

     nonlocal keyword allows a nested function to modify a var in its parent function or inner function without creating new local var
     global keyword allows to modify a var which is declare top of the script or file

Q6.  What is the built-in namespace? Give five examples
     of names that live in the built-in namespace.

     built-in namspace means built-in functions which are already in python system
     ex; len(),print(),input(),id(),type()

Q7.  In the payroll example (10.py), identify which LEGB
     level each of these belongs to inside compute_pay():
     regular, overtime_rate, base_wage, hours, min, max

     L = regular, overtime_rate
     E = hours
     G = base_wage
     B = min , max

Q8.  What happens when the same variable name exists at
     multiple LEGB levels? Which one does Python use?

     python used the Global variable if that same variable doesnt declare inside the function
     otherwise it will take enlcosing or local variable

Q9.  In 11.py, outer has score = 45 and inner has
     score = 90. Are these the same object?
     How do you prove they are different?

     no there names are same but they are different
     using type() built-in function we find the mem address and by that we can prove both are diff variables

Q10. Can you call an inner function from outside its
     enclosing function? What error occurs if you try?

     No, we cant call an inner function from outside its enclosing function
     It raised NameError like that name is not defined

Q11. What does locals() return inside an inner function?
     Does it include variables from the enclosing scope?

     locals() returns dict containing all var that are inside the inner function only
     Yes we can include enclosing scope variables, if we refered them inside the inner function they will take that otherwise ignored them

Q12. What does globals() return from inside a deeply
     nested inner function?

    inside inner function globals() return dict containing all variables defined on top of the file or script


------ >   Q13. In 9.py, the inner_fn uses the name len. At which
     LEGB level is len found? What would happen if you
     defined a local variable named len inside inner_fn?

     length found at level 4th level which is built-in ( B )
    

Q14. Explain the LEGB lookup trace for the following
     names accessed inside inner_fn of 9.py:
     district, city, country, print, len

    L = district
    E = city
    G = country
    B = len()


Q15. What is the difference between shadowing in a
     regular function vs shadowing in a nested function?

     shadowing inside the normal function, var inside function hides the global var
     shadowing inside the nested function, inner function hides the var of the outer function (enclosing var)



Q16. What error is raised when an inner function tries
     to do enclosing_var += 1 without the nonlocal keyword?
     Why does this happen?

     it will raised UnboundLocalError 
     for ex;
     def outer():
        count = 0
        def inner():
            count += 1
            print(count)
        inner()
    outer()

    it raised error because,python assume that count is local var inside the inner() bcoz it assigns value,
    but before assigning python try to read its old value



Q17. In the payroll example, hours is a parameter of the
     outer function payroll(). What LEGB level does it
     belong to when accessed inside compute_pay()?

    Its level is 2nd (E) enclosing

Q18. Can globals() be called from inside a deeply nested
     inner function? Will it return the module-level
     globals or something else?

     yes, globals() can be called from inside a deeply nested inner function
     It always returns the module-level global variables, not the local variables of outer or inner functions



Q19. What is the practical use of the enclosing scope?
     Give a real-world example where an inner function
     reading from enclosing scope is useful.

     enclosing scope useful when inner function needs to use data from the outer function without passing it multiple times
     ex;
     def login_system():
        attempts = 0
        
        def login():
            nonlocal attempts
            attempts+=1
            print("Login attempts : ",attempts)
        return login
     user1=login_system
     user1()
     user1()




Q20. Summarise the four LEGB namespaces in one sentence
     each, covering: what it contains, when it is created,
     and when it is destroyed.

     Local ( L ) : Contians var inside the current or inner function, created when function starts and destoryed when function ends
     Enclosing ( E ) : Contains var inside the outer function , created when the outer function runs and destroyed when the outer and inner function ends
     Global ( G ) : Contains var define at top of the file/script , created when programs starts and destroyed when program ends
     Built-in ( B ) : Contains python predefined names or built in functions ,created when python starts and end when python stops

