---------------6 May-------------

I1. What is a tuple in Python? Define it in one sentence.
    tuple is a container data type in python store elements in ordered using () 
 
I2. Which brackets are used to create a tuple?
    () brackets are used to create tuple
 
I3. What is the difference between a homogeneous tuple
    and a heterogeneous tuple? Give one example of each.
    homogeneous tuple stored elements with similar data tyoe
    hetrogeneous tuple stored elements with different data tyoe

I4. What does "ordered" mean for a tuple?
    ordered means tuple keeps insertion order of the elements
 
I5. How do you access individual elements of a tuple?
    What is the starting index of a tuple?

    to access individual element of tuple we use indexing
    starting index of tuple is 0

I6. What does "immutable" mean for a tuple?
    immutable means we cant change,add and remove elements from the tuple
    But if we create the tuple of same name for modification it will change there memory address
 
I7. What are the three operations you CANNOT perform on a tuple
    because it is immutable?

    count(),insert(),remove(),append()
 
I8. Why would you use a tuple instead of a list?


I9. Does a tuple allow duplicate values?
    Give an example.
    Yes, tuple allows duplicates values
    ex; tuple1=(10,20,30,20)
        print(tuple1)
        Output : (10,20,30,20)
 
I10. How do you create an empty tuple in Python?
     What does type() return for an empty tuple?

     syntax of create empty tuple in python : tuple_name=()
     type() return for empty tuple is also tuple

I11. How do you create a tuple with only one element?
     What happens if you forget the trailing comma?
     Using trailing comma 
     ex; tup=(1,)
         print(tupe) = gives (1)

    when we forget to used trailing comma it will give you the output without () and in integer class
 
I12. What is the output of type((25)) and type((25,))?
     Explain the difference.

     type(((25))) = < Class : 'int'>
     type(((25,))) = < Class : 'tuple'>


I13. What is the difference between positive indexing
     and negative indexing in a tuple?
     Give an example for each using tup1 = (10, 20, 30, 40, 50).

     positive indexing means indexing start from the left side with starting index 0
     negative indexing means indexing start from the right side with ending index 0

     for ex;
            tup1 = (10, 20, 30, 40, 50).
            print(tup1[2]) # returns 30
            print(tup1[-3]) # returns 20


I14. What does tup1[-1] return? What does tup1[0] return?
    tup1[-1] # returns 50 (last element of the list)
    tup1[0] # returns 10 (first element of the list)

I15. What is slicing in a tuple? Write the syntax.
    slicing means extract sub tuples from the main tuple
    syntax : tup_name[start:stop:step]
 
I16. What is the difference between tup1[2:] and tup1[:2]?
    tup1[2:] # returns (30,40,50)
    tup1[:2] # returns (10,20)

 
I17. How do you reverse a tuple using slicing?
     Write the slicing expression.
     for reversing tuple using slicing we used step = -1
     slicing expression for reversing : tuple_name[::-1]

I18. Name three ways to loop through a tuple in Python.
    (1) for 
    (2) for in range:
    (3) while (condition:)
 
I19. When would you use enumerate() instead of a regular
     for loop on a tuple?

     When we want to print values with index number we used enumerate()

I20. What is the difference between a for loop and a
     while loop when iterating over a tuple?

     for loop used when we know the iteration values and while loop doesnt know iteration value it will be run until condititon become false

I21. What is the output of type((10)) and why?
    Output of type((10)) is integer because 10 is store as a integere without trailing comma

 
I22. Can a tuple contain another tuple inside it?
     Give an example.

     Yes we can store a tuple into another tuple 
     for ex; 

     tup1=(1,2,3)
     print(tup1)
     tup2=(4,5,6,tup1)
     print(tup2)
 
     Output : 

     (1, 2, 3)
     (4, 5, 6, (1, 2, 3))

I23. What is the difference between a list and a tuple?
     Give at least three points.

     list:
     (1) List is mutable in nature
     (2) List store elements in [] brackets
     (3) List used various built in functions and methods to modify

     tuple:
     (1) Tuple is immutable in nature
     (2) Tuple store elements in () brackets
     (3) Tupke doesnt have various built in functions and methods to modify


---------------7 May-------------

Q1. What does immutability mean for a tuple?
    Name the three operations that are NOT allowed on a tuple.

    immutability means we cant add,remove or change value from tuple, if we try to add,remove and change it and reassign that variable they will be change memory address
    operations which are not allow in tuples are = .copy(),.append(),.remove()

Q2. What error is raised when you try to modify a tuple element?
    'tuple' object has no attribute .copy()

Q3. Why are tuples considered safer than lists for storing
    fixed data?
    Because , tuples are immutable so our data is safe , no one can modify it or copy it and list is immutable it can add,remove or change the elements

Q4. What is tuple concatenation? Which operator is used?
    tuple concatenation means adding two tuples and form single tuple
    '+' operator is used 

Q5. Does concatenation change the original tuples?
    What does it return?
    It doesnt change original tuple , it returns both tuple elements in new tuple

Q6. What is merging in tuples? How many tuples can be merged?
    Merging is also like concatenation we can join or add to many tuples together

Q7. What operator is used for merging tuples?
    How is merging different from concatenation?
    '+' operator is used for merging tuple
    Usually merging and concatenation is same but for adding two tuple we used concatenation and for adding multiple tuples into one we used merging

Q8. Which function is used to convert other data types to a tuple?
    Name four data types that can be converted.
    tuple() function is used to converting multiple data types into tuple
    list,set,string,dict can be converted into tuple

Q9. What happens when you pass a string to tuple()?
    What does each element of the resulting tuple contain?
    when we pass string to tuple that string is convertet into tuple
    and each element of resulting element contain single character with '' from that string

Q10. When a dictionary is converted to a tuple using tuple(),
     what is stored — keys, values, or both?
     when a dictionary is converted to a tuple keys are stored

Q11. Why does converting a set to a tuple give a different order
     each time? What property of sets causes this?
     Because set is a unordered data type 

Q12. What is aliasing in tuples?
     aliasing in tuple means two tuples refer same memory address

Q13. How can you check if two tuple variables are aliases
     of each other?
     using '=' this operator we aliasing tuple and using identity 'is' check that tuples are aliases of each other

Q14. Since tuples are immutable, is aliasing in tuples
     as dangerous as aliasing in lists? Explain.
     No, Tuple aliasing is usually safe because tuples are immutable 
     Lists are mutable we can modify it thats why its risky


Q15. What is cloning in tuples? Which method is used?
    cloning means two tuples refers to the two different mem location
    using .copy() or tuple()

Q16. What is the key difference between aliasing and cloning
     in terms of memory?
     aliasing means two tuples refers same mem location and cloning means two tuples refers different mem location

Q17. Since tuples are immutable, why would you still need
     to clone a tuple?
     Because cloning reffers same mem address and its safe , and also avoid confusion in large program instead of aliasing

Q18. What is the purpose of the `in` operator in tuples?
     What are the two values it can return?
     'in' operator is used to check that element present in tuple or not
     if present it return True otherwise False

Q19. What is the difference between `in` and `not in` operators?
    'in' operator used to check that element is present in tuple or not
    'not in' operator used to check that element is present or not in tuple

Q20. What does the `is` operator check in Python?
     How is it different from the == operator?
     'is' operator is used to check that both tuples are on same mem locations
     '==' operator is used to check equality of both tuples

Q21. When will tup1 is tup2 return True?
     When will it return False?
     Returns True when tup1 and tup2 have same mem location otherwise it returns False

Q22. How do you check if a tuple is empty in Python?
     What operator is used?
     using 'not' operator in if-else condition to check that tuple is empty or not

Q23. What does Python return when you check
     bool(()) and bool((1, 2, 3))?
     bool(()) returns False
     bool((1, 2, 3)) return True

Q24. How does Python compare two tuples?
     Does it compare their lengths or their elements?
     Using comparision opertors (>,<,<=,>=,==) python compare two tuples
     It comares their elements

Q25. Given a = (1, 2, 3, 4) and b = (1, 2, 5):
     Why does a < b return True even though a has more elements?
     Because it compare By element not length so here 3<5 means 5 is greater so it returns True
