-------------3 May----------------

Q1. What is a list in Python? What is another name for it?
    list is a data type of python which is store the data in ordered format
    dynamic array is another nam of list

Q2. What are the 4 key characteristics of a list?
    (1) Mutable in nature
    (2) Can store all data types data
    (3) Dynamic in nature
    (4) Allows duplicate values

Q3. What is the difference between homogeneous and heterogeneous list? Give one example of each.
    homogeneous list is the list where we store only same type of data in a list
    ex; list1=[1,2,3,4] 

    heterohgeneous list we store multiple type of data in a list
    ex; list1=[1,"Gayarti",True,0.1,1+2j]

Q4. What is the difference between basic data types and container data types? Name all container data types in Python.
    basic data type are like int,float,string,bool,complex,byte and container data types are like list,tuple,dict,step

    Basic data type used to assign a type of data and conatiner data type used to store data of various types

Q5. What is list indexing? What is the difference between positive and negative indexing?
    list indexing means find out the position of the variable in list
    Positive indexing starting from left side , from index[0]
    Negative indexing starting from right side , from index[-1]

Q6. What index does the first element always have? What index does the last element always have in negative indexing?
    index[0] is first element always have
    in negative indexing last element have index[-1]

Q7. What is list slicing? Write the full syntax with start, end, and step.
    list slicing means create sublists from main list
    sytanx : list_name[start:end:step]

Q8. In slicing, the end index is exclusive -- what does that mean? Give one example.
    Means the doesnt consider end index while printing sublist they consider the one index before that end index
    ex ; list1=[1,2,3,4,5]
         print(list1[0:3])
         Output : 1 2 3 

Q9. What does list[:] return? What does it mean when both start and end are omitted?
    list[:] gives entire list

Q10. What is the difference between mutable and immutable? Is list mutable or immutable?
    mutable means we can change or modify the data after created , without changing the mem address
    immutable means we cant change or modify the data after created , it will change the mem address 
    list is mutable in nature

Q11. Are duplicate values allowed in a list? Give one example.
    Yes , duplicates are allow in list
    ex; list1=[1,2,3,2,5]
        print(list1)
        Output : 1 2 3 2 5

Q12. How do you loop through a list using a for loop? Write the syntax.
    loop through in a list means to proecss each element of the list individually

Q13. What is the enumerate() function? When would you use it instead of a normal for loop?
    enumerate() is a built in function it returns index with its values

Q14. What is the difference between for loop and while loop when iterating through a list?
    when we used for loop here we know the iterations and while loop we used to process some condition and gives the iteration

Q15. What will len() return for an empty list? What will it return for a list with 5 elements?
    len() gives 0 for emoty list, if list with 5 elements are there it will return 5


-------------4 May----------------


Q1. What is mutability in Python?
    Why is a list called a mutable data type?

    Mutability means we can modify the data type after it created
    Because , we can modify it after it created it doesnt change its memory address
 
Q2. How is a list different from an integer in terms of mutability?
    list is container data type and it is mutable in nature 
    integer is basic data type and it is immutable in nature
 
Q3. What is list concatenation? Which operator is used?
    list concatenation means merge or join two strings for that we used + operator
 
Q4. Does list concatenation modify the original lists?
    No, its creates new list of concatenation
 
Q5. How do you convert a string into a list in Python?
    What function is used?

    to convert string into list we used list() function
    ex; string1="Gayatri"
        print(list(string1))
        Output : G a y a t r i

Q6. Can we convert a tuple and a set into a list? How is it done?
    Yes, we can convert tuple and set into a list
    its done using list() built in function
    ex; tuple1=(1,2,3)
        print(list(tuple1))
        Output : [1,2,3]

        set1={1,2,3}
        print(list(set1))
        Output : [1,2,3]
 
Q7. What is aliasing in Python lists?
    aliasing means we refer two or more list to the same memory location
    for ex; list1=[1,2,3]
            list2=[4,5,6]
            list1=list2 # alicing syntax
            Output : print(list1) = 4 5 6

Q8. What problem does aliasing cause?
    Problem is when we update the list2 it affects on list1 also
    
Q9. How can you check whether two variables are aliases of each other?
    we check its memory address to check whether two var are aliasee=s of each other or not,
    because when we did aliasing two variables store in same memory address
 
Q10. What is cloning in Python lists?
    cloning also like a aliasing it returns a new list (shallow copy) of the original list but on different memory location
    but here modification doesnt affect of cloning list
 
Q11. What is the difference between aliasing and cloning?
    cloning also like a aliasing it refers two or more list to the same memory location
    but here modification doesnt affect of cloning list
 
Q12. What is the `in` operator in Python lists? What does it return?
    'in' operator is used to check that element is present in the list or not
     if the element present in the list it returns True otherwise False
 
Q13. Is the `in` operator case-sensitive when checking
     string elements in a list?

    Yes, its case sensitive
 
Q14. How do you check if a list is empty in Python?
     What is the Pythonic way to do it?

     There are two types to check the list is empty or not

     (1) list_name=[]
     (2) list_name=list()
 
Q15. What does len() do in a list?
    len() checks the length of the list means how many elements are contain in list
 
Q16. What is the difference between max() and min()?
    min() gives the minimum value from the list and max() returns the maximum value from the list
 
Q17. What does sum() do? Can it be used on a list containing strings?
    sum() gives the addition of the elements from the list
    No, we cant used on a list containing strings because for summation string need same data type 
 
Q18. What is the difference between any() and all()?
    any() gives True if any item is true in list (it returns false only when all items are 0)
    all() gives True if all item are true in list (it returns false when atleast one item is 0)

Q19. What does sorted() do? Does it change the original list?
    sorted() gives the elements in sorted ascending order , it doesnt change original it creates new one
 
Q20. What does reversed() return? Why do we need list()
     around it to print the output?

     reversed() gives the elements in reverse order 
     we need list() because reversed() gives an iterator object, not a list
     We use list() to convert it into a readable sequence of elements
    


-------------5 May----------------


Q1. What is the syntax for calling a list method in Python?
    Syntax : list_name().method_name()
 
Q2. What does append() do? Where does it add the element?
    Can it add only one element at a time?
    
    append() used to add single element at the end of the list
    yes , it add only one element at a time
 
Q3. What is the difference between append() and insert()?
    append() used when we want to add a single element at the end of the list
    insert() used when we want to add a element on a particular position/index
 
Q4. What does insert() do? What two arguments does it take?
    What happens to the existing elements when insert() is used?

    insert() used to add a element on a particular position
    it takes two argument insert(index_no,value) where index_no is position where we want to add a new value and value is the element we want to add
    when we used insert() existing list will be change,existing elements are goes forward or backword
 
Q5. What does extend() do? How is it different from append()?
    extend() used to insert another list(multiple items) into at the end of existing list, we used this when we want to add multiple items 
 
Q6. What is the difference between extend() and the + operator
    for joining two lists?
    extend() 


Q7. What does remove() do? Does it remove by value or by index?
    What happens if the value appears more than once in the list?
 
Q8. What does pop() do when called without any argument?
 
Q9. What does pop(index) do? How is it different from pop()?
 
Q10. What is the difference between remove() and pop()?
 
Q11. What does clear() do? After calling clear(), does the list
     variable still exist?

Q12. What does index() do? What does it return?
     If a value appears more than once, which occurrence does
     index() return?
 
Q13. What does count() do? What does it return?

Q14. What does sort() do? Does it modify the original list
     or return a new one?
 
Q15. What is the difference between sort() and sorted()?
 
Q16. What does reverse() do? Does it modify the original list
     or return a new one?
 
Q17. What is the difference between reverse() and reversed()?
 
Q18. What does copy() do? What kind of copy does it create?
     How can you verify that the copy is at a different
     memory location?

Q19. How does Python compare two lists?
     What does it compare — the length or the elements?
 
Q20. How does Python decide which list is greater when comparing
     two lists element by element?